<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="migration-guide">
   <title>Migration guide</title>
   <body>
      <p>IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions, also known as IBM BAMOE, is a cloud-native business automation technology for building cloud-ready business applications.
IBM BAMOE is optimized for a hybrid cloud environment and adapts to your domain and tooling needs.</p>
      <p>IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions version 9.1.1 is based soley on the upstream community project known as <xref href="https://kie.org/about/" scope="external">Apache KIE</xref>, which stands for <tt>Knowledge Is Everything</tt>.
The Apache KIE Community is a home for leading Open Source projects that play a role in delivering solutions around Business Automation and Artificial Intelligence in the cloud.</p>
      <p>The <xref href="https://kogito.kie.org/" scope="external">Apache KIE Kogito</xref> initiative is the next generation of business automation platforms focused on cloud-native development, deployment, and execution.
Kogito comprises the battle-tested modules of the Apache KIE group: <tt>Apache KIE Drools</tt> and <tt>Apache KIE jBPM</tt>.</p>
      <p>The core objective of IBM BAMOE’s implementation of Kogito-based microservices is to help you mold a set of decisions into your own domain-specific cloud-native set of services.
As a developer of business automation applications, you can use IBM BAMOE version 9.1.1 to build cloud-native applications that adapt to your business domain and tooling.</p>
      <section id="_overview">
         <title>Overview</title>
         <p>This section describes how to migrate your existing business automation applications and platforms to the most recent version of IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions.
The supported upgrade process is from the previous version to the current version.
If you are migrating from an older version, you must follow the migration steps to upgrade to each intermediate version, as documented.
Depending on the complexity of your installation, you might want IBM® Services to participate in your project.
If so, contact your IBM service representative.</p>
         <p>The following topics are covered in this chapter:</p>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <xref href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_process_automation_manager/7.0/html/migrating_from_red_hat_jboss_bpm_suite_6.4_to_red_hat_process_automation_manager_7.0/migration-overview-con.html">Red Hat version 6 to version 7</xref> for migration from Red Hat JBoss BPM Suite version 6 to version 7 of the former Red Hat offerings of Red Hat Process Automation Manager and/or Red Hat Decision Manager.</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="redhat-to-ibm.html">Red Hat version 7 to IBM BAMOE version 8.0.x</xref> for migration from the former Red Hat offerings <i>(Red Hat Process Automation Manager and/or Red Hat Decision Manager)</i> to IBM’s various enterprise releases of IBM Decision Manager Open Edition (DMOE) and/or IBM Process Automation Manager Open Edition (PAMOE).</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="now-to-next.html">IBM BAMOE version 8.0.x to IBM BAMOE version 9.0.x</xref> for migration from IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions version 8.0.x to IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions version 9.0.x.</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="90x-to-91x.html">IBM BAMOE version 9.0.x to IBM BAMOE version 9.1.1</xref> for migration from IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions version 9.0.x to IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions version 9.1.1.</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="business-central.html">Business Central</xref> for migration from Business Central to IBM BAMOE Developer Tools.</li>
         </ul>
      </section>
      <section id="_prerequisites">
         <ul>
            <li>
               <xref href="https://openjdk.org" scope="external">JDK 11</xref> or later is installed.</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="https://maven.apache.org" scope="external">Apache Maven 3.8.6</xref> or later is installed.</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="https://code.visualstudio.com/download" scope="external">Visual Studio Code IDE</xref> latest version</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=IBM.bamoe-developer-tools" scope="external">IBM BAMOE Developer Tools</xref> latest version of VS Code IDE extensions</li>
         </ul>
      </section>
   </body>
</topic>