<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="_update_maven_settings">
   <title>Update Maven Settings</title>
   <body>
      <title>Update Maven Settings</title>
      <p>A 'pom.xml' file is associated with a particular project whereas the Maven 'settings.xml' file is used to customize global operational parameters across projects.
This file includes configurations such as the location of the local repository, alternative sources for remote repositories, and inputting credentials, among others.</p>
      <p>There are two directories for the storage of the settings.xml file:</p>
      <ul>
         <li>Maven Installation Directory: Found at ${Maven.home}/conf/settings.xml, this location reflects the settings applied universally across all Maven projects on the system.</li>
         <li>User-Specific Configuration: Located at ${user.home}/.m2/settings.xml, this directory allows for the storage of user-specific Maven settings.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Users can adjust their Maven environment to better suit their development needs by using these configurations.</p>
      <note type="note">
         <p>The first <tt>settings.xml</tt> is also referred to as <tt>global settings</tt>, and the second is referenced as user settings.
Both are combined with users taking precedence.</p>
      </note>
      <note type="tip">
         <p>If you need to create user-specific settings from scratch, copy the global settings from your Maven installation to your <b>
               <i>${user.home}/.m2</i>
            </b> directory.
Maven’s default <b>
               <i>settings.xml</i>
            </b> is a template with comments and examples so you can quickly tweak it to match your needs.
<i>If you are looking to learn more about how to manage your various Maven settings, see <xref href="https://maven.apache.org/settings.html" scope="external">Maven Settings Reference</xref>.</i>
         </p>
      </note>
      <p>With the knowledge from IBM BAMOE version 8 or Red Hat version 7, you might be familiar with product dependencies hosted by <xref href="https://maven.repository.redhat.com/ga/com/redhat/ba/" scope="external">Red Hat Maven repository</xref>.
However, this is not required anymore as the product dependencies are hosted by <xref href="https://central.sonatype.com/search?q=bamoe" scope="external">Maven Central</xref>.
There is no need to include an additional repository in <tt>pom.xml</tt> or <tt>settings.xml</tt>.</p>
   </body>
</topic>