<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="_using_the_management_console_to_manage_process_instances">
   <title>Using the Management Console to manage process instances</title>
   <body>
      <p>You can use the Management Console to view and manage process instance details from your BAMOE services.
You can run the Management Console for local BAMOE services or add it to your BAMOE infrastructure on OpenShift.</p>
      <p outputclass="title">
         <b>Prerequisites</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
         <li>A BAMOE Data Index Service instance is configured and running for your BAMOE service.
The Data Index Service enables the Management Console to access stored process data.
The Data Index Service requires Infinispan or MongoDB persistence and Apache Kafka messaging for your BAMOE service.</li>
         <li>
            <p>The <tt>pom.xml</tt> file of your BAMOE project contains the following dependency for the process management add-on.
This add-on enables the Management Console to interact with the process data through the add-on REST endpoint <tt>/management/processes</tt>.</p>
            <p outputclass="title">
               <b>Project dependency to enable process management REST operations</b>
            </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">
&lt;dependency&gt;
  &lt;groupId&gt;org.kie&lt;/groupId&gt;
  &lt;artifactId&gt;kie-addons-quarkus-process-management&lt;/artifactId&gt;
&lt;/dependency&gt;
</codeblock>
         </li>
         <li>
            <p>The <tt>application.properties</tt> file of your BAMOE project contains the following system properties for the location where the BAMOE service is deployed, such as <tt>http://localhost:8080</tt>, and for Quarkus Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) support.
These properties enable the Management Console to generate the URLs to execute the REST operations from the process management add-on.</p>
            <p outputclass="title">
               <b>Application properties for REST URLs</b>
            </p>
            <codeblock>
kogito.service.url=http://<i>HOST</i>:<i>PORT</i>
quarkus.http.cors=true
</codeblock>
         </li>
         <li>
            <p>Procedure</p>
            <ol>
               <li>
                  <p>In a command terminal, enter the following command to run the Management Console:</p>
                  <p outputclass="title">
                     <b>Running the Management Console</b>
                  </p>
                  <codeblock>
$ docker run -p 8280:8080 quay.io/bamoe/management-console:9.1.1-ibm-0003
</codeblock>
                  <note type="note">
                     <p>The default port for the Management Console is 8080, but this example specifies port 8280 to avoid conflicts with the example BAMOE service running at port 8080.</p>
                     <p>Also, the Management Console uses the default Data Index Service port 8180.
If you modified this port in your Data Index Service instance, you can set the new Data Index URL using the <tt>RUNTIME_TOOLS_MANAGEMENT_CONSOLE_DATA_INDEX_ENDPOINT</tt> environment variable like:</p>
                     <codeblock>
$ docker run -e RUNTIME_TOOLS_MANAGEMENT_CONSOLE_DATA_INDEX_ENDPOINT=http:/_HOST_:_PORT_/graphql -p 8280:8080 quay.io/bamoe/management-console:9.1.1-ibm-0003
</codeblock>
                  </note>
               </li>
            </ol>
         </li>
      </ul>
   </body>
</topic>