<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="README">
   <title>IBM Business Automation Manager Open Edition (BAMOE) Documentation</title>
   <body>
      <p>Documentation for the IBM Business Automation Manager Open Edition product lives here.
It is a combination of Asciidoc files and possibly links to other repositories within the KIE Community.</p>
      <section id="_installing_asciidoctor">
         <title>Installing asciidoctor</title>
         <p>Please consult the <xref href="https://asciidoctor.org/#installation" scope="external">asciidoctor installation instructions</xref>.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="_building">
         <p>Using either the native asciidoctor, asciidoctor.js, or asciidoctor in Docker, execute the following command to build the documentation from the cloned repository:</p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-shell">
asciidoctor -vw -R . -D output \**/*.adoc
</codeblock>
         <p>This will build all the files as HTML, show you any warnings, and output into the <tt>output</tt> directory, which is ignored by git.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="_authoring">
         <p>We recommend using the <xref href="https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-vscode" scope="external">VS Code extension</xref> for authoring and previewing.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="_writing_conventions">
         <ul>
            <li>One sentence per line.</li>
            <li>Tables one column per line, rows seperated by an empty line.</li>
            <li>TBD</li>
         </ul>
      </section>
      <section id="_repository_layout">
         <p>The root of the repository contains a <tt>nav.adoc</tt> file, which closely resembles an <xref href="https://antora.org" scope="external">Antora</xref> navigation file.
This is used in building the Table of Contents (TOC) for the documentation.</p>
         <p>Each main section in the navigation file corresponds to a directory.
Each secondary section of the navigation has its own file.</p>
         <p>Images are kept at the root level.</p>
         <p>All attributes are in the <tt>partials/attributes.adoc</tt> file and included at the top of every file.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</topic>