<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whats-new-9-1-0">
   <title>What’s new in version 9.1.0</title>
   <body>
      <p>IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions, version 9.1.0 introduces significant enhancements and capabilities as well as providing critical security and known issue fixes.</p>
      <p>This release supports the following features:</p>
      <section id="_modernized_technology_stack">
         <title>Modernized Technology Stack</title>
         <ul>
            <li>Java upgrade - Incorporates an upgraded technology stack featuring Java 17 and Jakarta EE 10.</li>
            <li>Quarkus LTS upgrade - Supports the latest Long-Term Support (LTS) version of Quarkus 3.8.4 by enhancing performance and reliability.</li>
         </ul>
      </section>
      <section id="_transition_to_downstream_build">
         <ul>
            <li>Independent build - In this release, BAMOE employs a complete downstream build by eliminating any dependency on open-source binaries.</li>
            <li>
               <p>Maven Repository Distribution:</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>With the transition of the KIE projets to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF), it has become necessary to rename a number of Maven modules. For more information, see <xref href="../../installation/upgrading.dita">Upgrading</xref>
                  </li>
                  <li>The downstream libraries are no longer available on Maven Central. Instead, they are provided in a zip file for integration into corporate Maven Repository Managers such as Nexus or Artifactory. BAMOE includes a production-ready Maven repository as a container for customers without a corporate Maven Repository Manager. You can configure the details for local Maven settings using the information in the document. <xref href="../../installation/configure-maven.dita">Learn more…​</xref>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </section>
      <section id="_helm_chart">
         <p>A new Helm Chart is available and can be used to deploy BAMOE Canvas image on a Kubernetes or OpenShift cluster using the Helm package manager. This Helm chart, facilitates the management (define, install, and upgrade) of complex Kubernetes applications. <xref href="../../installation/kie-helm-charts.dita">Learn more…​</xref>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section id="_technology_preview_stateful_process_services">
         <p>Stateful process services are available in this release as a technology preview. This functionality is supported by a new compact architecture which minimizes the inter-component communication and ensures stability and the robustness of your applications. While BPMN models were supported in previous versions, additional BPMN functionality is available to support stateful processes. You can design your BPMN processes with Canvas or the BPMN modeler in VSCode. <xref href="../../workflow/workflow-techpreview.dita">Learn more…​</xref>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section id="_new_dmn_editor">
         <p>A New DMN editor in this release provides runtime and design support for DMN 1.5 models at conformance level 3. You can design your DMN models with BAMOE Canvas or import existing DMN models into your BAMOE projects for deployment and execution. The 9.0.x DMN editor, referred as the Classic DMN editor, is still available. By default, the New DMN Editor will be opened when you open it. To switch to the Classic DMN Editor, click the "New DMN Editor" dropdown and select "Switch back to the Classic DMN Editor".</p>
         <p>Existing DMN files can be opened directly in the new DMN Editor; however, if they are edited and saved, they will no longer be compatible with the classic DMN editor. <xref href="../../editing/authoring-decisions.dita">Learn more…​</xref>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section id="_samples_package">
         <p>A sample package that includes 19 additional examples, 16 of which focus on workflow use cases, bringing the total to 36 example use cases. The examples section features this comprehensive sample package and accompanying documentation.
 <xref href="../../getting-started/examples.dita">Learn more…​</xref>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section id="_system_requirements">
         <p>You can find the detailed system requirements by accessing the following link: <xref href="https://www.ibm.com/software/reports/compatibility/clarity-reports/report/html/softwareReqsForProduct?deliverableId=839878FFE5974B07B85E83D0B1D368B0" scope="external">Detailed system requirements</xref>.</p>
         <p>An additional section can be found inside the documentation that summarizes the tested and supported configurations. See <xref href="supported-environments.html">Supported Environments</xref>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section id="_download_documents">
         <p>A download document that contains the information for obtaining IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions can be found <xref href="https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/node/7151078" scope="external">here</xref>.
All BAMOE versions are indicated with a numerical Major.Minor.Patch following Open Source community Semantic Versioning principles. Fixes for on-premise installs are available through IBM Fix Central, and BAMOE Canvas container images are available through Quay Container Registry.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</topic>