<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="_devservices">
   <title>DevServices</title>
   <body>
      <p>Kogito DevServices function only when a Kogito Quarkus application is in dev mode.
Enabling DevServices starts an in-memory Data Index container.
When using IBM BAMOE, it is recommended to use the data-index addon instead of the in-memory Data Index container when using DevServices.</p>
      <table>
         <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colname="col_1" colwidth="53.8461*"/>
            <colspec colname="col_2" colwidth="30.7692*"/>
            <colspec colname="col_3" colwidth="7.6923*"/>
            <colspec colname="col_4" colwidth="7.6924*"/>
            <tbody>
               <row>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Property Name</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Description</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Type</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Default</p>
                  </entry>
               </row>
               <row>
                  <entry>
                     <p>quarkus.kogito.devservices.port</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Optional port the dev service will listen to.
If not defined, 8180 will be used.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>int</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>
                        <tt>8180</tt>
                     </p>
                  </entry>
               </row>
               <row>
                  <entry>
                     <p>quarkus.kogito.devservices.enabled</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Toggle to enable DevServices for Kogito.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>boolean</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>true</p>
                  </entry>
               </row>
               <row>
                  <entry>
                     <p>quarkus.kogito.devservices.image-name</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>The Data Index image to use.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>string</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry/>
               </row>
               <row>
                  <entry>
                     <p>quarkus.kogito.devservices.shared</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>(Quarkus Only) Toggle to enable sharing of Quarkus Dev Services.
When shared, Quarkus looks for running containers using label-based service discovery.
If a matching container is found, it is used, so a second one is not started.
Otherwise, Dev Services for a new Data Index instance is started.
The discovery uses the <tt>kogito-dev-service-data-index</tt> label.
The value is configured using the <tt>service-name</tt> property.
Container sharing is only used in dev mode.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>boolean</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>
                        <tt>true</tt>
                     </p>
                  </entry>
               </row>
               <row>
                  <entry>
                     <p>quarkus.kogito.devservices.service-name</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>The value of the <tt>kogito-dev-service-data-index</tt> label attached to the started container.
This property is used when <tt>shared</tt> is set to <tt>true</tt>.
In this case, before starting a container, Dev Services looks for a container with the <tt>kogito-dev-service-data-index</tt> label set to the configured value.
If found, it will use this container instead of starting a new one.
Otherwise, it starts a new container with the <tt>kogito-dev-service-data-index</tt> label set to the specified value.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>string</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>
                        <tt>kogito-data-index</tt>
                     </p>
                  </entry>
               </row>
               <row>
                  <entry>
                     <p>quarkus.kogito.devservices.enabled</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Toggle to enable Kogito Dev Services.
Dev Services are generally enabled by default, unless there is an existing configuration present.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>boolean</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry/>
               </row>
               <row>
                  <entry>
                     <p>quarkus.jbpm.devui.users.<tt>&lt;user name&gt;</tt>.groups</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Groups to which the provided user (specified in the name of the config) belongs.</p>
                     <p>This is only used when testing/developing services through DevUi.
The configured user (specified by the <tt>user name</tt>) and their groups (specified in this configuration) will be listed in a Task Inbox dropdown so the developer can switch between users during development and testing.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>List of strings</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>None</p>
                  </entry>
               </row>
            </tbody>
         </tgroup>
      </table>
   </body>
</topic>