<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="drl-rules-embedded-java-mode">
   <title>DRL rule execution in embedded Java mode</title>
   <body>
      <p>Building a DRL based project makes use of Apache Maven and aligns with standard Apache Maven practices.
These projects or modules are simply an Apache Maven Java project or module; with an additional metadata: file <tt>META-INF/kmodule.xml</tt>.
The <tt>kmodule.xml</tt> file is the descriptor that selects resources to knowledge bases and configures those bases and sessions.</p>
      <p>While standard Apache Maven can build and package these resources, it will not provide validation at build time.
There is an Apache Maven plugin (<tt>kie-maven-plugin</tt>) which is recommended to use to get build time validation.
The plugin also generates many classes, making the runtime loading faster too.</p>
      <section id="_kmodule_xml">
         <title>kmodule.xml</title>
         <p>Since meaningful defaults have been provided for all configuration aspects, the simplest <tt>kmodule.xml</tt> file can contain just an empty kmodule tag like the following:</p>
         <p outputclass="title">
            <b>An empty kmodule.xml example</b>
         </p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">
&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;kmodule xmlns="http://www.drools.org/xsd/kmodule"/&gt;
</codeblock>
         <p>In this way the kmodule will contain one single default <tt>KieBase</tt>.
All KIE assets stored under the resources folder, or any of its subfolders, will be compiled and added to it.
To trigger the building of these artifacts it is enough to create a <tt>KieContainer</tt> for them.</p>
         <p outputclass="title">
            <b>Creating a KieContainer that reads the files to be built from the classpath</b>
         </p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-java">
KieServices kieServices = KieServices.Factory.get();
KieContainer kieContainer = kieServices.getKieClasspathContainer();
</codeblock>
         <p>
            <tt>KieServices</tt> is the interface from where it is possible to access all the KIE building and runtime facilities.
In the code above, all the Java sources and the KIE resources are compiled and deployed into the <tt>KieContainer</tt> which makes its contents available for use at runtime.</p>
         <p>The <tt>kmodule.xml</tt> allows to define and configure one or more <tt>KieBase</tt> s and for each <tt>KieBase</tt> all the different <tt>KieSession</tt> s that can be created from it, as showed by the <xref href="https://docs.drools.org/8.44.0.Final/drools-docs/drools/KIE/index.html#_thekmodulexmlfile" scope="external">example</xref>.
Then it is possible to simply retrieve the <tt>KieBase</tt> s and <tt>KieSession</tt> s from the <tt>KieContainer</tt> using their names.</p>
         <p outputclass="title">
            <b>Obtaining KieBase and KieSession using their names from kmodule.xml</b>
         </p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-java">
KieServices kieServices = KieServices.Factory.get();
KieContainer kieContainer = kieServices.getKieClasspathContainer();

KieBase kieBase1 = kieContainer.getKieBase("KBase1");
KieSession kieSession1 = kieContainer.newKieSession("KSession2_1");
StatelessKieSession kieSession2 = kieContainer.newStatelessKieSession("KSession2_2");
</codeblock>
      </section>
      <section id="_pom_xml">
         <p>To run decision in embedded java mode, we will need to use <tt>kie-maven-plugin</tt> in our project.
Also few a KIE specific dependencies are needed.
Please update your <tt>pom.xml</tt> in the following way.</p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">
  &lt;packaging&gt;kjar&lt;/packaging&gt;
  ...
  &lt;dependencies&gt;
    &lt;dependency&gt;
      &lt;groupId&gt;org.drools&lt;/groupId&gt;
      &lt;artifactId&gt;drools-compiler&lt;/artifactId&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;
    &lt;dependency&gt;
      &lt;groupId&gt;org.drools&lt;/groupId&gt;
      &lt;artifactId&gt;drools-model-compiler&lt;/artifactId&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;
    &lt;!-- For DebugRuleRuntimeEventListener.java --&gt;
    &lt;dependency&gt;
      &lt;groupId&gt;org.drools&lt;/groupId&gt;
      &lt;artifactId&gt;drools-core&lt;/artifactId&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;
    &lt;!-- For DRL files --&gt;
    &lt;dependency&gt;
      &lt;groupId&gt;org.drools&lt;/groupId&gt;
      &lt;artifactId&gt;drools-mvel&lt;/artifactId&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;
    &lt;!-- For kmodule.xml --&gt;
    &lt;dependency&gt;
      &lt;groupId&gt;org.drools&lt;/groupId&gt;
      &lt;artifactId&gt;drools-xml-support&lt;/artifactId&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;
    &lt;!-- Logging --&gt;
    &lt;dependency&gt;
        &lt;groupId&gt;org.slf4j&lt;/groupId&gt;
        &lt;artifactId&gt;slf4j-api&lt;/artifactId&gt;
        &lt;version&gt;2.0.13&lt;/version&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;
    &lt;dependency&gt;
        &lt;groupId&gt;org.slf4j&lt;/groupId&gt;
        &lt;artifactId&gt;slf4j-simple&lt;/artifactId&gt;
        &lt;version&gt;2.0.13&lt;/version&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;
  &lt;/dependencies&gt;
  ...
  &lt;build&gt;
    &lt;plugins&gt;
      &lt;plugin&gt;
        &lt;groupId&gt;org.kie&lt;/groupId&gt;
        &lt;artifactId&gt;kie-maven-plugin&lt;/artifactId&gt;
        &lt;extensions&gt;true&lt;/extensions&gt;
      &lt;/plugin&gt;
    &lt;/plugins&gt;
  &lt;/build&gt;
</codeblock>
      </section>
      <section id="_kiebase">
         <p>The <tt>KieBase</tt> is a repository of all the application’s knowledge definitions.
It will contain rules, processes, functions, and type models.
The <tt>KieBase</tt> itself does not contain data; instead, sessions are created from the <tt>KieBase</tt> into which data can be inserted and from which process instances may be started.
The <tt>KieBase</tt> can be obtained from the <tt>KieContainer</tt> containing the <tt>KieModule</tt> where the <tt>KieBase</tt> has been defined.</p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-java">
KieBase kieBase = kieContainer.getKieBase();
</codeblock>
      </section>
      <section id="_kiesession">
         <p>The <tt>KieSession</tt> stores and executes on the runtime data.
It is created from the <tt>KieBase</tt> and has two implementations.</p>
         <div conref="drl-rules-embedded-java-mode_stateful.dita">_stateful</div>
         <div conref="drl-rules-embedded-java-mode_stateless.dita">_stateless</div>
      </section>
      <section id="_kieruntime">
         <p>The <tt>KieRuntime</tt> provides methods that are applicable to both rules and processes, such as setting globals and registering channels.
("Exit point" is an obsolete synonym for "channel".)</p>
         <div conref="drl-rules-embedded-java-mode_globals.dita">_globals</div>
      </section>
      <section id="_event_model">
         <p>The event package provides means to be notified of Drools rule engine events, including rules firing, objects being asserted, etc.
This allows separation of logging and auditing activities from the main part of your application (and the rules).</p>
         <p>The <tt>KieRuntimeEventManager</tt> interface is implemented by the <tt>KieRuntime</tt> which provides two interfaces, <tt>RuleRuntimeEventManager</tt> and <tt>ProcessEventManager</tt>.
We will only cover the <tt>RuleRuntimeEventManager</tt> here.</p>
         <p>The <tt>RuleRuntimeEventManager</tt> allows for listeners to be added and removed, so that events for the working memory and the agenda can be listened to.</p>
         <p>The following code snippet shows how a simple agenda listener is declared and attached to a session.
It will print matches after they have fired.</p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-java">
kieSession.addEventListener(new DefaultAgendaEventListener() {
    public void afterMatchFired(AfterMatchFiredEvent event) {
        super.afterMatchFired(event);
        System.out.println(event);
    }
});
</codeblock>
         <p>Drools also provides <tt>DebugRuleRuntimeEventListener</tt> and <tt>DebugAgendaEventListener</tt> which implement each method with a debug print statement.
To print all Working Memory events, you add a listener like this:</p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-java">
kieSession.addEventListener(new DebugRuleRuntimeEventListener());
</codeblock>
         <p>All emitted events implement the <tt>KieRuntimeEvent</tt> interface which can be used to retrieve the actual <tt>KnowlegeRuntime</tt> the event originated from.</p>
         <note type="note">
To see available events browse <tt>org.kie.api.event.rule</tt>
            <xref href="https://github.com/apache/incubator-kie-drools/tree/999-20240521/kie-api/src/main/java/org/kie/api/event/rule" scope="external">package</xref>.
</note>
      </section>
      <section id="_kieruntimelogger">
         <p>The <tt>KieRuntimeLogger</tt> uses the comprehensive event system in Drools to create an audit log that can be used to log the execution of an application for later inspection.</p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-java">
KieRuntimeLogger logger =
  KieServices.Factory.get().getLoggers().newFileLogger(kieSession, "logdir/mylogfile");
// ... kieSession in action ...
logger.close();
</codeblock>
      </section>
      <section id="_commands_and_the_commandexecutor">
         <p>Both the stateful and stateless session interfaces extend the <tt>CommandExecutor</tt> interface.
The <tt>CommandExecutor</tt> allows for commands to be executed on those sessions, the only difference being that the <tt>StatelessKieSession</tt> executes <tt>fireAllRules()</tt> at the end before disposing the session.
The commands can be created using the <xref href="https://github.com/apache/incubator-kie-drools/blob/999-20240521/kie-internal/src/main/java/org/kie/internal/command/CommandFactory.java" scope="external">
               <tt>CommandFactory</tt>
            </xref>.</p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-java">
ExecutionResults executionResults = statelessKieSession.execute(
    CommandFactory.newBatchExecution(Arrays.asList(
        CommandFactory.newInsert(new Applicant("#0001", 20), "applicant"),
        CommandFactory.newInsert(new LoanApplication("#0001"), "application"),
        new SetActiveAgendaGroup("applicationGroup")
      )
    )
);

executionResults.getResults().get("application");
</codeblock>
         <p>The previous example executes a single command.
The <tt>BatchExecution</tt> represents a composite command, created from a list of commands.
It will iterate over the list and execute each command in turn.
This means you can insert some objects, start a process, call <tt>fireAllRules</tt> and execute a query, all in a single <tt>execute(…​)</tt> call, which is quite powerful.</p>
         <p>The <tt>StatelessKieSession</tt> will execute <tt>fireAllRules()</tt> automatically at the end.
However the keen-eyed reader probably has already noticed the <tt>FireAllRules</tt> command and wondered how that works with a <tt>StatelessKieSession</tt>.
The <tt>FireAllRules</tt> command is allowed, and using it will disable the automatic execution at the end; think of using it as a sort of manual override function.</p>
         <p>Any command, in the batch, that has an out identifier set will add its results to the returned <tt>ExecutionResults</tt> instance.
Please notice <tt>"applicant"</tt> and <tt>"application"</tt> identifiers in our example.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="_complete_example">
         <p>Most of the mentioned concepts can be seen as <xref href="https://github.com/bamoe/bamoe-docs-source-code-examples/tree/9.1.x/rules-embedded-mode-example" scope="external">rules-embedded-mode-example</xref>.
The example is based on the <tt>loan application age limit</tt> rule present <xref href="./business-rules-with-drools.dita">Business Rules with Drools</xref> document.</p>
      </section>
   </body>
</topic>