<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="_globals">
   <title>Globals</title>
   <body>
      <title>Globals</title>
      <p>Globals are named objects that are made visible to the Drools rule engine, but in a way that is fundamentally different from the one for facts: changes in the object backing a global do not trigger reevaluation of rules.
Still, globals are useful for providing static information, as an object offering services that are used in the RHS of a rule, or as a means to return objects from the Drools rule engine.
When you use a global on the LHS of a rule, make sure it is immutable, or, at least, do not expect changes to have any effect on the behavior of your rules.</p>
      <p>A global must be declared in a rules file, then it needs to be backed up with a Java object.</p>
      <codeblock>
global java.util.List list
</codeblock>
      <p>With the <tt>KieBase</tt> now aware of the global identifier and its type, it is now possible to call <tt>ksession.setGlobal()</tt> with the global's name and an object, for any session, to associate the object with the global.
Failure to declare the global type and identifier in DRL code will result in an exception being thrown from this call.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-java">
List&lt;String&gt; list = new ArrayList&lt;&gt;();
kieSession.setGlobal("list", list);
</codeblock>
      <p>Make sure to set any global before it is used in the evaluation of a rule.
Otherwise a <tt>NullPointerException</tt> will be thrown.</p>
   </body>
</topic>