<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="what-is-bamoe">
   <title>About IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions</title>
   <body>
      <p>IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions is a cloud-native business automation technology designed for building cloud-ready business applications.
It is based on the upstream Apache KIE open-source community, which includes popular technologies such as Drools, jBPM, and Kogito.
You can explore the Apache KIE community at <xref href="https://kie.apache.org" scope="external">kie.apache.org</xref>.</p>
      <p>IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions is licensed under the <xref href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.en.html" scope="external">GNU Lesser General Public License v. 2.1</xref>. Each software component is governed by a license located in the component source code that permits you to run, copy, modify, and redistribute (subject to certain obligations) the software component.</p>
      <p>IBM BAMOE is not a one-size-fits-all solution.
It is optimized for hybrid cloud environments and can easily adapt to specific domain and tooling needs.
Its core objective is to empower you to transform a set of business processes and decisions into your own domain-specific, cloud-native services.
With BAMOE, you build a cloud-native application by creating a set of independent, domain-specific services designed to deliver business value.
The processes and decisions you use to describe the desired behavior are executed as part of the services you create.
The resulting services are highly scalable, and the runtime is optimized for your service’s needs.</p>
      <section id="_cloud_native_approach">
         <title>Cloud-native Approach</title>
         <p>IBM BAMOE is designed to run and scale on cloud infrastructure, leveraging the latest cloud-based technologies to enhance performance and scalability.
By integrating with technologies like Quarkus and Apache Kafka, BAMOE ensures quick start times and instant scaling on container application platforms like OpenShift. Some of the Compatible Technologies are as follows:</p>
         <dl>
            <dlentry>
               <dt>OpenShift</dt>
               <dd>Based on Kubernetes, OpenShift is the target platform for building and managing containerized applications with BAMOE.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt>Quarkus</dt>
               <dd>A native Java stack for Kubernetes, Quarkus allows you to build applications efficiently using IBM BAMOE services.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt>GraalVM</dt>
               <dd>Used with Quarkus, GraalVM enables native compilation with IBM BAMOE, resulting in fast start-up times and a minimal footprint.
For example, a native BAMOE service can start in approximately 0.003 milliseconds, about 100 times faster than a non-native start-up.
This speed is crucial in a cloud ecosystem, especially for small serverless applications.
Prometheus and Grafana: These tools are compatible with BAMOE services for monitoring and analytics, with optional extensions available for enhanced functionality.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
               <dt>Kafka</dt>
               <dd>A middleware technology supported by BAMOE for messaging and security, ensuring robust communication and data integrity within your applications.</dd>
            </dlentry>
         </dl>
         <div conref="what-is-bamoe_domain_specific_flexibility.dita">_domain_specific_flexibility</div>
         <div conref="what-is-bamoe_developer_centered_experience.dita">_developer_centered_experience</div>
      </section>
   </body>
</topic>