<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ilmt-track-bamlcns-metrictool">
   <title>Tracking license use in ILMT</title>
   <body>
      <p>IBM® License Metric Tool generates reports to help you maintain compliance with your Virtual Processor Core (VPC) subcapacity license terms.
License Metric Tool (ILMT) can calculate VPC consumption only when software identification tags exist and are activated by the customer.</p>
      <p>See the section, <xref href="https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/downloading-ibm-license-metric-tool-92" scope="external">License Metric Tool with disconnected scanners to install on Linux or Windows</xref> on the page, for guidelines on how to obtain and install ILMT.</p>
      <section id="_using_and_configuring_bamoe_ilmt_libraries">
         <title>Using and Configuring BAMOE ILMT Libraries</title>
         <p>License Metric Tool automatically detects the following IBM Business Automation Manager Open Editions 9.1.1 release chargeable components that are part of the product:</p>
         <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="col_1" colwidth="50*"/>
               <colspec colname="col_2" colwidth="50*"/>
               <thead>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Chargeable Software Components</entry>
                     <entry>Library</entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>IBM Process Automation Manager Open Edition</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>ilmt-compliance-quarkus-pamoe</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>IBM Decision Manager Open Edition</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>ilmt-compliance-quarkus-dmoe</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p>The respective libraries use the system variable SWIDTAG_DIR to determine the directory for creating a swidtag file. If the SWIDTAG_DIR variable is set, the library uses the specified directory for swidtag file creation.
If the SWIDTAG_DIR is not set, the library defaults to the home directory of the hosting application.</p>
         <p>It is important to note that if the SWIDTAG_DIR environment variable contains invalid content or an invalid path, the hosting application fails to deploy.</p>
         <p>The swidtag file is an XML file content based on ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015 specification.
Following is an example of the swidtag file content:</p>
         <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">
&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;SoftwareIdentity name="IBM Decision Manager Open Edition" tagId="ibm.com-3d9d28f19d0f45fda113c07fb481e3ea-9.0.0" version="9.0.0" versionScheme="multipartnumeric" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://standards.iso.org/iso/19770/-2/2015/schema.xsd" xmlns:ds="http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://standards.iso.org/iso/19770/-2/2015-current/schema.xsd schema.xsd"&gt;
    &lt;Meta persistentId="3d9d28f19d0f45fda113c07fb481e3ea"/&gt;
    &lt;Meta generator="4-1-20210113"/&gt;
    &lt;Entity name="IBM" regid="ibm.com" role="licensor tagCreator softwareCreator"/&gt;
&lt;/SoftwareIdentity&gt;
</codeblock>
      </section>
   </body>
</topic>