<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
 PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="upgrading">
   <title>Upgrading from BAMOE 9.0.x</title>
   <body>
      <p>The following new features may require you to upgrade your projects:</p>
      <ul>
         <li>Canvas Helm chart</li>
         <li>The new DMN editor supporting DMN 1.5</li>
      </ul>
      <p>To upgrade BAMOE from 9.0.x to 9.1.1, follow these steps:</p>
      <ul>
         <li>Update QUARKUS Version to 3.8.6</li>
         <li>Update pom files from your projects with 9.1.1 BAMOE BOM</li>
         <li>Rebuild projects and re-deploy as regular software rollout.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>For BAMOE Canvas:</p>
      <p>The new containers are the drop-in replacements for the existing.
You can use <xref href="https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/applications/deployments/route-based-deployment-strategies.html#deployments-blue-green_route-based-deployment-strategies" scope="external">blue/green deployment strategies</xref>
      </p>
      <p>For the new DMN editor:
After upgrade, the New DMN Editor will be opened automatically when you first access it in Canvas or Developer tools for VS Code.
Existing DMN files (any version) can be opened directly in the editor. For more information, see <xref href="../editing/authoring-decisions.dita">Authoring decisions</xref>
      </p>
      <section id="_maven_libraries_mapping_guide">
         <title>Maven libraries mapping guide</title>
         <p>With the transition of the KIE projets to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF), it has become necessary to rename a number of Maven modules.  The following table(s) describe the changes to the Maven GAV (GroupID/ArtifactID/Version) that happened in 9.1.0:</p>
         <p>The general guidelines are:</p>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <xref href="../installation/gav-mapping-rules.dita">Drools Maven mappings</xref> for anything related to rules or decisions.</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="../installation/gav-mapping-process.dita">jBPM Maven mappings</xref> for anything related to BPMN-based stateless/stateful processes.</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="../installation/gav-mapping-kogito.dita">Kogito Maven mappings</xref> for anything related to infrastructure or extended services.</li>
            <li>
               <xref href="../installation/gav-mapping-kie.dita">KIE Maven mappings</xref> for anything else that does not fall into the above categories.</li>
         </ul>
      </section>
   </body>
</topic>